A lot of this stuff is just about using
the tools that HTML already gives us.
So I think one thing that's kind
of cool about accessibility
is that you can do a lot
just by using the proper or
like semantic elements in HTML for
what you're trying to accomplish.
So, one pattern that we see a lot
is that folks will just use,
kind of divs for everything.
I saw somebody on Twitter once,
call it div soup.
And I kind of like that where it's
just like I don't know div is
a perfectly good tag.
It's a block level element.
It doesn't have any styles attached to
it and so they just use making a header
use a div making a button, use a div,
making anything, just use a div for it.
But what's interesting about these HTML
elements is that while some of them
provide purely semantic value, some of
them have a lot of functionality built in.
That maybe we don't know about, or
we just don't think about all that often.
So, for example, some that don't have
functionality, but they do have semantic,
meaning our aside, footer and header.
And so those might help like your SEO
score, your website health score, but
they don't really do anything.
They're not gonna add extra utility for
screen readers,
they're not gonna add anything like that.
But other ones such as button input and
text area provide a lot of functionality.
So I think that like for
an example a text area,
people just use text area
when they need it, right.
Like if you need a big form field,
you're just gonna use that.
But buttons are really tricky because they
come with a lot of styling that folks
don't really like the look of and so often
I'll even see this in like design systems,
people will just use a span or
a div with a class of button and
then they'll style at themselves.
And I think one thing that's tricky is
understanding like how much goes into
these elements that maybe
we're not thinking of and
the impact that it can have
on users with disabilities.
So, before we get into examples,
kind of back to our web aim thing,
the theme of the course.
So for web aim compliance,
the important ones are like h1,
h2, h3 are used for headings.
And we'll see that later with the screen
readers, I can actually show it right now.
So if I go ahead and
I turn my screen reader on, and again,
this is voiceover, and
then I go ahead and I do.
It's like option control U will bring
up this thing in voiceover, but
I can do things like I can look at
all of the articles across the top.
I can go to links and
it'll read all of the links on the page.
So if I wanted to like scan through
the links and I can go to headings and
I can then arrow key
through all the headings.
So you could immediately see here how,
if for example, your design system used
like divs and then you use class h1,
class h2, and you styled them differently.
Or if you just made everything h1 or
everything h2, something like that,
you can see how this would make it very
difficult on folks using these assistive
technologies.
So properly nested use h1 at
the top of the screen only have
one of them than anything under
that as a top level sections and
h2, 3s inside things like that.
So again this is like something that's
relatively easy to accomplish just HTML,
just making sure using the right tag,
but can have a really
profound impact on people.
And so again,
if you have style considerations,
I would encourage you
always use the proper tags.
So use an h3 and
make it bigger if you need to Again,
anything you do in CSS won't
affect screen readers.
So if you really want a big label, but
it's technically the third nested heading,
use the proper heading
then add a class to it.
Then do whatever you want in CSS
to make it look the way that you'd
like it to look.
But don't just use different elements for
those styles and the same with a button,
which we'll get into in a minute.
If you need a button, use a button don't
use a div and style as much better to
use a button and then add a class and
then style that class.
Yeah, the webAIM's Recommendations,
especially on the h1s, uls, ols,
blockquotes, things like that.
Those have meaning.
They can be really helpful for
accessibility assistive
device users to use.
Text labels for form input elements,
we'll get into that in a minute.
But again, making sure that when
you're using a screen reader,
it'll read aloud what the user is
supposed to do in that form field.
And then the reading and
navigation order to determine by
the code order is logical and intuitive.
So again, just thinking about for
an example on this page like this is an h1
because it's kind of like
the top level description.
Any high level elements
under that will be an h2.
Then if I had a couple
sections under that,
that would be h3 is just
thinking about it that way.